feat: Bicep contribution guidelines - OIDC setup (#1773)
Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules: docs/content/contributing/bicep/bicep-contribution-flow/_index.md

{{< /expand >}}

## 1. Fork the module source repository

{{< hint type=tip >}}

Checkout the [PowerShell Helper Script](#powershell-helper-script-to-setup-fork--ci-test-environment) that can do this step automatically for you! 👍

{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint type=note >}}

Each time in the following sections we refer to 'your xyz', it is an indicator that you have to change something in your own environment.

{{< /hint >}}

> Bicep AVM Modules (Resource, Pattern and Utility modules) will be homed in the [`Azure/bicep-registry-modules`](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository and live within an `avm` directory that will be located at the root of the repository, as per [SNFR19](/Azure-Verified-Modules/specs/shared/#id-snfr19---category-publishing---registries-targeted).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bicep AVM Modules (Resource, Pattern and Utility modules) are located in the `/avm` directory of the [`Azure/bicep-registry-modules`](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository, as per [SNFR19](/Azure-Verified-Modules/specs/shared/#id-snfr19---category-publishing---registries-targeted).
```

> Module owners are expected to fork the [`Azure/bicep-registry-modules`](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository and work on a branch from within their fork, before then creating a Pull Request (PR) back into the [`Azure/bicep-registry-modules`](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository's `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Module owners are expected to fork the [`Azure/bicep-registry-modules`](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository and work on a branch from within their fork, before creating a Pull Request (PR) back into the Upstream [`Azure/bicep-registry-modules`](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository's `main` branch.
```

To do so, simply navigate to the [Public Bicep Registry](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules) repository, select the `'Fork'` button to the top right of the UI, select where the fork should be created (i.e., the owning organization) and finally click 'Create fork'.

> ### 1.1 Create a GitHub environment

Reviewer: Is this environment also required without OIDC? If not, would it make sense to move the instructions into 'Option 1' below?

Author: Fair point, I thought about the same and eventually kept it here for the following reasons:
- avoid moving between github and azure settings
- the guidelines will change again once spn+secret will be deprecated. We'll then just provide oidc guidelines and maybe keep spn+secrets as an appendix.
- Creating a gh environment does not impact the spn+secrets settings.

Reviewer: Fair @eriqua, was just wondering / confused. Will resolve.

Create the `avm-validation` environment in your fork.

{{< expand "➕ How to: Create an environment in GitHub" "expand/collapse" >}}

1. Navigate to the repository's `Settings`.

2. In the list of settings, expand `Environments`. You can create a new environment by selecting `New environment` on the top right.

3. In the opening view, provide `avm-validation` for the environment `Name`. Click on the `Configure environment` button.

<img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentAdd.png" alt="Add environment" width=100%>

Please ref the following link for additional details: [Creating an environment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs-and-deployments/managing-deployments/managing-environments-for-deployment#creating-an-environment)

{{< /expand >}}

<br>

## 2. Configure a deployment identity in Azure

> AVM tests the deployments in an Azure subscription. To do so, it requires a deployment identity with access to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AVM tests its module via deployments in an Azure subscription. To do so, it requires a deployment identity with access to it.
```

Author: ```suggestion
AVM tests its modules via deployments in an Azure subscription. To do so, it requires a deployment identity with access to it.
```

{{< hint type=warning title="Deprecating the Service Principal + Secret authentication method">}}

> Support to Service Principal + Secret authentication method has been deprecated and will be decommissioned going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support for the 'Service Principal + Secret' authentication method has been deprecated and will be decommissioned in the future.
```

It is highly recommended to start leveraging Option 1 below to adopt OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication and align with security best practices.

{{< /hint >}}

{{< expand "➕ Option 1 [Recommended]: OIDC - Configure a federated identity credential" "expand/collapse" >}}

> 1. Create a new or leverage an existing user-assigned managed identity with at least `Contributor` & `User Access Administrator` permissions on the Management-Group/Subscription you want to test the modules in. You might find the following links useful:

Reviewer: If wonder if it would make sense to recommend the newer [`Role Based Access Control Administrator`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/privileged#role-based-access-control-administrator) role instead if the original [`User Access Administrator`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/privileged#user-access-administrator).

Author: Hey @AlexanderSehr, as discussed offline required roles depend on the resource type(s) deployed. I'd also like the requirement statement to be improved in that sense, but for the moment the above covers 95% of the cases. Would it be OK to create an issue to track the improvement and resolve this conversation?

Reviewer: Sounds like a plan

    - [Create a user-assigned managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities#create-a-user-assigned-managed-identity)
    - [Assign an appropriate role to your user-assigned managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities#manage-access-to-user-assigned-managed-identities)

    <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCRole.png" alt="OIDC identity roles" width=100%>

{{< hint type=note title="Additional roles">}}

Some Azure resources may require additional roles to be assigned to the deployment identity. An example is the `avm/res/aad/domain-service` module, which requires the deployment identity to have the Domain Services Contributor Azure role to create the required Domain Services resources.

> In those cases, for the first PR adding such modules to the public registry, we recommend the author to reach out to AVM maintainers or, alternatively, to [create a CI environment GitHub issue](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/issues/new?template=avm_ci_environment_issue.yml) in BRM, specifying the additional prerequisites. This is to make sure that the required additional roles get assigned in the upstream CI environment before the corresponding module PR gets merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In those cases, for the first PR adding such modules to the public registry, we recommend the author to reach out to AVM maintainers or, alternatively, to [create a CI environment GitHub issue](https://github.com/Azure/bicep-registry-modules/issues/new?template=avm_ci_environment_issue.yml) in BRM, specifying the additional prerequisites. This ensures that the required additional roles get assigned in the upstream CI environment before the corresponding PR gets merged.
```

{{< /hint >}}

2. Configure a federated identity credential on a user-assigned managed identity to trust tokens issued by GitHub Actions to your GitHub repository.
    - In the Microsoft Entra admin center, navigate to the user-assigned managed identity you created. Under `Settings` in the left nav bar, select `Federated credentials` and then `Add Credential`.
      <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_01.png" alt="OIDC federated credentials" width=60%>
    - In the Federated credential scenario dropdown box, select `GitHub Actions deploying Azure resources`

>     <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_02.png" alt="OIDC scenario" width=80%>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_02.png" alt="OIDC scenario" width=80%>
```

>     - In the Federated credential scenario dropdown box, select `GitHub Actions deploying Azure resources`
>     <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_02.png" alt="OIDC scenario" width=80%>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In the Federated credential scenario dropdown box, select `GitHub Actions deploying Azure resources`
      <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_02.png" alt="OIDC scenario" width=80%>
```

>     - For Organization, specify your GitHub organization name, for Repository specify the value `bicep-registry-modules`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For the `Organization`, specify your GitHub organization name, for Repository specify the value `bicep-registry-modules`.
```

>     - For Entity type, select `Environment` and specify the value `avm-validation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For the `Entity` type, select `Environment` and specify the value `avm-validation`.
```

    - Add a Name for the federated credential, for example, `avm-gh-env-validation`.

>     - The Issuer, Audiences, and Subject identifier fields autopopulate based on the values you entered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The `Issuer`, `Audiences`, and `Subject identifier` fields autopopulate based on the values you entered.
```

>     - Select `Add` to configure the federated credential.
>     <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_03.png" alt="OIDC Add" width=80%>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Select `Add` to configure the federated credential.
      <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCAddFederatedIdentity_03.png" alt="OIDC Add" width=80%>
```

    - You might find the following links useful:
      - [Configure a federated identity credential on a user-assigned managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust-user-assigned-managed-identity)
3. Note down the following pieces of information
    - Client ID
    - Tenant ID
    - Subscription ID
    - Parent Management Group ID

    <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/msiOIDCInfo.png" alt="OIDC Add" width=70%>

Additional references:
- [Configure a federated identity credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/github/connect-from-azure-openid-connect#prerequisites)
- [Azure login GitHub action - Login with OIDC](https://github.com/Azure/login?tab=readme-ov-file#login-with-openid-connect-oidc-recommended)

{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "➕ Option 2 [Deprecated]: Configure Service Principal + Secret" "expand/collapse" >}}

> 1. Create a new or leverage an existing Service Principal with at least `Contributor` & `User Access Administrator` permissions on the Management-Group/Subscription you want to test the modules in. You might find the following links useful:

Reviewer: Same ask as in [this comment](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/pull/1773/files#r1898999613), whether we should recommend a different role than `User Access Administrator`

### 3.1. Set up secrets

#### 3.1.1 Shared repository secrets

> To use the environment's pipelines you should set up the following repository secrets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Continuous Integration environment's workflows you should set up the following repository secrets:
```

| `ARM_TENANT_ID` | `33333333-3333-3333-3333-333333333333` | The tenant ID of the Azure Active Directory tenant to test-deploy modules in. Is needed for resources that are deployed to the tenant scope. Note: This repository secret will be deprecated in favor of the `VALIDATE_TENANT_ID` environment secret required by the OIDC authentication. |
| `TOKEN_NAMEPREFIX` | `cntso` | Required. A short (3-5 character length), unique string that should be included in any deployment to Azure. Usually, AVM Bicep test cases require this value to ensure no two contributors deploy resources with the same name - which is especially important for resources that require a globally unique name (e.g., Key Vault). These characters will be used as part of each resource's name during deployment. For more information, see the `[Special case: TOKEN_NAMEPREFIX]` note below. |

{{< hint type=note title="Special case: TOKEN_NAMEPREFIX">}}

To lower the barrier to entry and allow users to easily define their own naming conventions, we introduced a default 'name prefix' for all deployed resources.

> This prefix is **only** used by the CI environment you validate your modules in, and doesn't affect the naming of any resources you deploy as part of any multi-module solutions (applications/workloads) based on the modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prefix is **only** used by the CI environment you validate your modules in, and doesn't affect the naming of any resources you deploy as part of any solutions (applications/workloads) based on the modules.
```
Would just recommend to remove that one word as some solutions (e.g., my image creation construct) only use a single module.

> Each pipeline in AVM deploying resources uses a logic that automatically replaces "tokens" (i.e., placeholders) in any module test file. These tokens are, for example, included in the resources names (e.g. `'name: kvlt-${namePrefix}'`). Tokens are stored as repository secrets to facilitate maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each workflow in AVM deploying resources uses a logic that automatically replaces "tokens" (i.e., placeholders) in any module test file. These tokens are, for example, included in the resources names (e.g. `'name: kvlt-${namePrefix}'`). Tokens are stored as repository secrets to facilitate maintenance.
```

{{< /expand >}}

#### 3.1.2 Authentication secrets

> In addition to shared repository secrets detailed above, additional GitHub secrets are required to allow the deployment identity authentication to Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to shared repository secrets detailed above, additional GitHub secrets are required to allow the deploying identity to authentication to Azure.
```

Author: I think the suggestion has a typo 😄 . Did you mean
```suggestion
In addition to shared repository secrets detailed above, additional GitHub secrets are required to allow the deploying identity to authenticate to Azure.
```

Reviewer: Maybe 😄

Expand and follow the option corresponding to the deployment identity setup chosen at [Step 2](#2-configure-a-deployment-identity-in-azure) and use the information you gathered during that step.

{{< expand "➕ Option 1 [Recommended]: Authenticate via OIDC" "expand/collapse" >}}

> Create the following environment secrets in the `avm-validation` GitHub environment created at [Step 1](#1-fork-the-module-source-repository)

Reviewer: Depending on the answer to [this comment](https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules/pull/1773/files#r1898998266), the environment may or may not exist...

Reviewer: Resolving as per thread above...

| Secret Name | Example | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `VALIDATE_CLIENT_ID` | `44444444-4444-4444-4444-444444444444` | The login credentials of the deployment principal used to log into the target Azure environment to test in. The format is described [here](https://github.com/Azure/login#configure-deployment-credentials). |
| `VALIDATE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` | `22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222` | Same as the `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` repository secret set up above. The ID of the subscription to test-deploy modules in. Is needed for resources that are deployed to the subscription scope. |
| `VALIDATE_TENANT_ID` | `33333333-3333-3333-3333-333333333333` | Same as the `ARM_TENANT_ID` repository secret set up above. The tenant ID of the Azure Active Directory tenant to test-deploy modules in. Is needed for resources that are deployed to the tenant scope. |

{{< expand "➕ How to: Add an environment secret to GitHub" "expand/collapse" >}}

> 1. Navigate to the repository's `Settings`.
> 
> <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettings.png" alt="Navigate to settings" width=100%>
> 
> 2. In the list of settings, select `Environments`. Click on the previously created `avm-validation` environment.
> 
> <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentConfigure.png" alt="Navigate to environments" width=100%>
> 
> 3. In the `Environment secrets` Section click on the `Add environment secret` button.
> 
> <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentSecretAdd.png" alt="Navigate to env secrets" width=70%>
> 
> 3. In the opening view, you can create a secret by providing a secret `Name`, a secret `Value`, followed by a click on the `Add secret` button.
> 
> <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentSecretAdd_02.png" alt="Add env secret" width=100%>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the repository's `Settings`.

   <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettings.png" alt="Navigate to settings" width=100%>

2. In the list of settings, select `Environments`. Click on the previously created `avm-validation` environment.

   <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentConfigure.png" alt="Navigate to environments" width=100%>

3. In the `Environment secrets` Section click on the `Add environment secret` button.

   <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentSecretAdd.png" alt="Navigate to env secrets" width=70%>

3. In the opening view, you can create a secret by providing a secret `Name`, a secret `Value`, followed by a click on the `Add secret` button.

   <img src="../../../img/bicep-ci/forkSettingsEnvironmentSecretAdd_02.png" alt="Add env secret" width=100%>
```
